hi this is Pete from strymon and we
walking you through the el capitan d
tape echo there's a quite a lot to cover
so I'm going to play some and turn some
knobs and explained what some of the
features and functions are
on the for the knob selections we've got
time which changes here in the way to a
page which changes the bandwidth of the
tape from full bandwidth
two older tape which would have a you
know a dark top end repeat switches the
number of echoes you get and while I'm
flattered which goes from a perfectly
tuned mechanical system
21 with quite a bit of you know warble
and you know a bit of a need of some
service we've got secondary functions on
these knobs as well so these are
functions that you access by holding
down the tab can bypass buttons together
in turning the knob so on the while and
flutter we have the the tape friction
component of the mechanical influence on
the tape speed so I'm going to turn the
wild flutter 20 and turn the tape
friction which we call a tape crinkle in
the in the labs here 20 so now we've got
a delay that you know tape machine that
shows no no sort of mechanical defect
and if I turn up just the friction
component
we hear some there's actually taped
splices and a little you know tape
creases and the the friction from
tensioner and the contaminants on the
tape when you have full bandwidth that
becomes more noticeable
we'll go into this other function a
little bit more of it at we slow down
the tape speed the that aspect tracks as
well the secondary function on the
repeats knob is the tape bias and that
allows us to vary the dynamic range and
the Headroom of the repeats based on the
bias of the tape that the harder the
bias the more the bias signal kind of
takes up the available Headroom of the
tape and you end up with repeats that
that end up saturating at a reduced
volume what's nice about that is you can
set the delay for for oscillation
repeats that don't actually you know
give you a big volume increase oh we'll
set the bias to maximum and set the
repeats pretty high here
so here that the repeats continue their
saturated but they're not acting they're
not at a higher volume than in what I'm
playing even toyed
there you can hear the characteristics
of the tape saturation so that's a nice
feature now we can by pressing them down
and going back here we're at a much
higher Headroom so give it the repeats
have a little more dynamics to them
they're a little bit lively and if I
were to turn up the repeats accordingly
we hear that the reducer experience the
the volume increase because of the
increased dynamic range of the repeats
so it's nice you can kind of tailor that
you know how you want if you want to
play with you know washed out
oscillating repeats you can kind of set
the level through adjusting the bias on
the tape age the secondary function is
the low end contour and at minimum we
have a full low end available
pretty much all magnetic tape machines
you're going to get some roll off you
know we allow you to if you if you want
to have the you know extended low-end
you know dial it in by turning the
yellow and contour to to minimum and if
we bring it up halfway here you can have
the low end as the repeats progressive
drilling off and go it's all the way get
to a dramatic High past affect a little
on the low in there and what's nice the
with its set extreme like that it
actually makes for some really nice I'm
going to go back to a higher I is here
to get the it really nice kind of you
know ban cast effect on the repeat
the secondary function for the time knob
is a spring reverb actually a lot of
these magnetic tape delays had had
spring reverb zin there to kind of add a
little more to the ambience and the
sci-fi stuff so by holding down tap and
bypass we can mix in a spring reverb
mix that to whatever degree you want so
that's kind of a cool you know bonus
feature that this is a tape delay with a
with a spring tank and in all the modes
of el capitan dia the spring is
available and active